#LyX 2.4 created this file. For more info see https://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 620
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass scrbook
\begin_preamble
% enables calculations
\usepackage{calc}

% increases the bottom float placement fraction
\renewcommand{\bottomfraction}{0.5}
% Added by lyx2lyx
\setlength{\parskip}{\medskipamount}
\setlength{\parindent}{0pt}
\end_preamble
\options intoc,bibliography=totoc,index=totoc,BCOR10mm,captions=tableheading,titlepage
\use_default_options true
\master main.lyx
\maintain_unincluded_children no
\language newzealand
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding auto
\font_roman "lmodern" "Times New Roman"
\font_sans "lmss" "Arial"
\font_typewriter "lmtt" "Courier New"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family sfdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_roman_osf false
\font_sans_osf false
\font_typewriter_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures false
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement h
\float_alignment class
\paperfontsize 10
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Abstract"
\pdf_author "Your name"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered true
\pdf_bookmarksopen true
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 2
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle false
\pdf_quoted_options "pdfpagelayout=OneColumn, pdfnewwindow=true, pdfstartview=XYZ, plainpages=false"
\papersize a4
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 2
\use_package amssymb 2
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_formatted_ref 0
\use_minted 0
\use_lineno 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 1
\math_indentation default
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle plain
\tablestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\change_bars false
\postpone_fragile_content false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\docbook_table_output 0
\docbook_mathml_prefix 1
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter*
Abstract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Abstract} 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
adds table of contents entry
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Forensic science has seen a shift in recent years.
 There is a move to taking a whole or multi-case view that utilises insights from previous criminal activity to predict outcomes for similar cases in the future instead of evaluating individual pieces of evidence,
 siloed in disciplines.
 Additionally,
 the analysis of individual evidence types is accepted practice in the judicial system.
 Questions arising in court have now shifted focus from the potential source(s) of the evidence to the mechanisms or timing of the deposition of the evidence.
 These questions are often referred to as “Activity Level propositions” because they relate to the mechanism that may have generated the evidence,
 rather than the source of the evidence.
 Bayesian networks (BNs) are an accepted method to evaluate these activity-level propositions.
 They provide a structured way to amalgamate results from individual experiments and information from expert knowledge to evaluate the support for a given activity-level scenario (in relation to an alternative) for a case.
 The use of a BN approach increases both transparency and explainability in evidence evaluation.
 Work with BNs in recent years has limited its scope to within single forensic disciplines.
 However,
 the evaluation of activity-level propositions is ripe for extension across discipline boundaries to incorporate multiple evidence types.
 Although analysis of crime is siloed in disciplines,
 criminal activity is not confined by these barriers.
 Combining different evidence types will provide additive information that traditional independent analysis may not expose.
 Given the dynamic nature of BN models,
 they are open to automation using generative AI (Artificial Intelligence) algorithms and other statistical models.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
This project proposes to amalgamate published and institutional knowledge of transfer,
 persistence,
 prevalence,
 and recovery characteristics of commonly seen forensic evidence types.
 There is an abundance of results in the literature for glass and fibre evidence,
 as well as potentially flawed results for DNA.
 The DNA results may be flawed in that the experimental conditions are so idealised that they may not be useful.
 The information from each evidence type is also highly dynamic with different analytical methodologies and experimental conditions utilised in each study.
 Extraction of the key features of each study will require an algorithmic approach and the creation of a storage system for the data,
 such as a vector database,
 to maintain similarity connections between different studies.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
I propose to use generative AI algorithms and other statistical methods with responsible AI development practices,
 to develop an automated BN system using this data.
 All methods will be implemented using open-source tools such as Python and R based packages to allow adjustments to the solution and reduce licencing costs.
 Assessment of the suitability of the Hugin API will also be carried out.
 The developed system would incorporate case circumstances and analysis results and support perturbation of likelihood estimations based on given scenarios.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
